Home and property insurance is referred to often
as homeowner's insurance, which protects you against
natural disasters, fires, burglaries, etc.
Now if you get a mortgage, many mortgage companies
require you to have homeowner's insurance.
I recommend getting it, of course.
We're going to talk about mortgages
and investing in real estate in part three of the course.
Now many things impact the cost of home insurance.
For example, location.
If you're near a place where natural disasters
occur more frequently,
and the way the house was built
really impacts insurance prices.
Brick-based houses are cheaper to insure than wooden ones.
Of course the value of the house
and the contents in the house or the apartment you live in
impacts the insurance price as well.
I recommend having deductible-based homeowner's insurance,
which means you have to pay the first couple hundred dollars
out of pocket, so if something happens you got to pay
a little bit out of pocket first.
The reason I say that is because if you have a deductible
your insurance is usually pretty cheap to finance,
to pay for monthly.
Before getting insurance on your house or apartment,
just ask the insurance company what you can do
to lower the cost of the policy,
like installing smoke or burglar alarms, etc.,
on the ceilings and at the doors, which I have.
Just as a quick side note,
and this is really worth reinforcing,
I have these really affordable extinguishers
in almost every single room.
My kids know exactly how to use them.
I find that the bigger one, of course I have these too,
the kids, if they panic, they might not know
how to use one of these,
but they know how to use these since you fire it at ...
Anyway, you get the idea.
As Andy Grove, the late great CEO of Intel,
only the paranoid survive.
Separately, shop around a lot for homeowner's insurance,
of course just like we did with the bank account exercise.
Now homeowner's insurance usually covers three things.
The first thing is stuff in the house that you own
in case of theft or damage.
This covers you in many cases if you are on vacation,
covers you if you're on vacation as well,
and your stuff, your luggage is stolen.
Also, ask your credit card company,
if when you book travel using their cards,
if luggage is insured because
you already have that credit card.
All right, cool, don't buy travel insurance
without first finding out if your homeowner's insurance
already covers travel, or if your credit cards
already cover that, travel insurance.
Trying to save you money.
The second thing homeowner's insurance covers
is the structure of the house,
meaning stuff that can easily be impacted
by fires and weather.
Earthquake and flooding insurance
are often not included as you need to get
another type of insurance plan for earthquake or flooding,
but they're included in some homeowner's insurance policies.
Always remember to ask, please.
The third thing that homeowner's insurance covers
is liabilities like your kids have
a friend over that is at your house
and falls down, etc.
If you own a trampoline, for example,
or a swimming pool in your backyard,
you could end up paying more in insurance as well.
Now get a policy that covers the cost
to rebuild your house and replace your stuff
if you have to rebuild.
The policy should cover the cost
to rent another house as well.
Just lastly, these companies have mobile products
for home inventory calculations.
I've got them listed here and you can actually
click on them as well in the resources section.
I used to buy earthquake insurance here in California
but I decided to stop doing this
as my homeowner's insurance kind of covered part of this.
Insurance salespeople are really crafty
and you can get insurance for just about anything really,
including meteor insurance in some countries.
Anyway, I recommend sticking
with four types of insurance products
that we discussed in this section.
Thank you.